# Welcome and Introduction &amp; The State of Mapping

Welcome. Welcome. Welcome to the gosh, it's the fifth MapCamp, can't believe this is number five. This started off with me going, I'm going to the pub anybody want to come along and do a little bit of mapping before it got completely out of hand, and we ended up in town halls and theaters and here we are now online and this is our fifth MapCamp.

So, before we get started with all of this, of course we'd better start with all the thank you's. Our first thank you, obviously is to all our sponsors. So, AWS, Agile, Alliance, eSynergy, Endeavor, Stream Sets. I mean a huge, huge, thank you to all of these companies for helping to make this happen. Also, a big thank you to all of you who are attending because without you we wouldn't be doing MapCamp, this year, particularly a massive thank you to Jane Kingston and Steve Hutson who organized all of this, they are the organizers behind MapCamp. They created this environment for us, just amazing. But you know, another huge, thank you has to be to our speakers. We've got 36 speakers organized throughout the day. Some amazing talks and lastly and certainly not least, because they are the most important people from my perspective, a huge huge thank you to our Chairs - Kat,, Damian and Jen, for helping get all the speakers together, getting all the subjects all organized and chairing throughout the whole day, and I've got to say Kat it's almost midnight with you, which is just like wow I mean, Gosh, I am a fan. So thank you so much for doing all of this. So anyway, enough blah blah, blah, blah from me, what I'm going to do is I'm going to immediately throw it over to Kat, Damian and Jen, and could you give us a quick introduction and also I've got a question, what are you hoping to get out of MapCamp this year?

I guess I'll go first, because I'm first in alphabetical order. I am Kat Swetel, I'm the chair of the society track this year, and I'm pumped about that, and I guess what I'm looking forward to is the same thing I look forward to every year at MapCamp. It's the weird connections that we make, basically, it's not a conference where everyone already knows each other. There's people coming from academia, there's people coming from industry there's people coming from the government and so I just look forward to what connections we can make across all the different places we come from and the different things that we think about and the ideas that we have, and I will pass it off to Damian.

Yep. Absolutely, same for me. I'm absolutely honored to be here again and given the year that we've had since we all gathered for MapCamp for me, it's really interesting to be leading the resilience track, because I think it has relevance for absolutely everybody. Audience speaker, like Kat I'm interested in some of the themes that emerge every year, you never know where they're going to come from what they'll be and yeah I'm actually getting us to introduce a few new speakers to MapCamp, new ideas, new problems, new points of view. I'm just interested to see how the audience, who is such a big part of MapCamp sort of respond to this so really looking forward to the question and answer sessions and some of the thoughts and provocations that have come from that.

Thanks Damian. Good morning everyone. So I'm Jen Ashley and I've been actually a part of MapCamp co-chairing it, initially with Simon and I'm glad to be co-chairing it with Kat and Damien and yes, I'm really looking forward to all the talks. We've been basically meeting up, at least the speakers in my track have been meeting up for the past few months basically and yeah, the talks are really going to be in a very listening and all the mapping exercises that they're going to do as well, I'm sure people are going to learn a lot from that and yeah, I'm really looking forward to that and the audience definitely will learn a lot from them today.

Awesome. No, no, I mean, it's for me, also this year has been fairly major in terms of mapping, cause very much what I mean, most things I've done in mapping being accidental. I mean, I created maps by accident when looking for something else. So I ended up creating an entire conference called MapCamp by pure accident by doing the sort of just a tweet. I now have a spaces thing, which is a weekly sort of podcast on Twitter or whatever you call it, and that was me finding a button on the mobile phone called spaces and going, I wonder what that does. I mean, mostly, completely and utterly accidental, but it's, it's delightful to see how the community itself is growing and so we've got so many, so you know we've got tools out there, like Online Wardley Maps, we've got certification programs with things like GCATI. We've got training programs with Pragmatic Wardley Mapping and Ben's books, so many books coming out about mapping. It's just been marvelous and it has, the big thing is it's not me and it's like for example, MapCamp, I've got to say, I am so grateful to all three of you for the work that you've put in the way it has been organized by the speakers. We found it's been just, marvelous and to some extent I can sort of sit back into the background except for right now because Jane has twisted my arm and got me to prepare a talk. So I do know that you've got lots of stuff to prepare because the main talks, the interesting talks when I finished my blah, blah, blah, kickoff off at nine o'clock. So what I can do is I can start my talk now, get it finished a little bit early to make sure that everybody's got time to get to the various tracks and remember we've got three tracks. We've got the the square window, the archway and the circle, purely accidental it's Playschool, purely accidental. It's not my fascination with learning and everything else, and that I'm still a child, but we've got three tracks, kicking off at nine o'clock and so I'm just going to say from me to all three of you, a big thank you, for everything you've done, I must clap. Thanks for the invitation. Good. So any final words for attendees?

Yeah, check out the networking areas as well, aside from good talks, it would be good to connect with your fellow attendees as well as the other speakers. On the vFairs site, there is a networking area you can also find the calendar, so you can add the talks into your calendar as well.

A big reminder to everybody, code of conduct, please as well and also, just that people know we are sponsoring charities this year as well. So we've got Cancer Research UK, Orangutang Outreach and Parkinson's, so we're sponsoring three different charities that people often ask me what to do about money and things like this. I don't make money from mapping at all, it's just something I love doing and I'm using in my research, I work for a company called DXC, but Jane and Steve have using MapCamp and an opportunity to raise funds for charities, which is fantastic. KAT, Damien, any final words you want to add?

Yeah. So for everybody new there are some incredibly smart people already involved in MapCamp and some incredibly smart speakers. There is no such thing as a stupid question if it's asked early enough and today is the best day to ask it. So feel free to get involved, ask questions, especially if the topics getting away from you, because that happens to me all the time.

That is a fantastic point. One of the things mapping is all about is a common language and challenging assumptions and yes being able to ask those questions in a safe environment, that's fantastic. Sorry to put you on the spot, Kat any final last comments or words of wisdom that you would might add at this point? Otherwise let's get straight into it. I'm out of wisdom because it's nine minutes after midnight here in Phoenix, but what I will say is just don't stress about missing sessions. Every single time slot is fantastic. Every single triad is fantastic. They're all recorded and you can go back and watch them later. Don't stress, that is such a fantastic one because they are all recorded. They will be on this platform for the next 30 days. And then they're all going onto YouTube and we're going to do a whole bunch of what are they called? Slow watch parties. That's right. So we'll go through all the talks all again, slow watch parties, but we're going to get that organized. You can comment on them and everything else. So it's no longer MapCamp it's Map Festival. No, I shouldn't say that I will cause even more trouble. So at this point, I'm going to say I will let you go to get prepared and for your very long day and thank you ever so much for doing this and in the meantime, everybody else who wants to, I've got a little introduction into mapping.

Really? Thanks, Simon pleasure.

Okay. So I've got to be very very mindful of the time, so let me get my shared screen up, view full screen mode, now I just want to double check. I can see several people talking chat. Fantastic. Hopefully one of you can see it says the state of mapping October 2021 swardley, can somebody just in the chat say yes they can see this looks fine.

Fantastic. Isn't that wonderful fantastic, good. So I'm just going to be mindful of the time. I know we've got to finish in 50 minutes. So the State of Mapping. I'm Simon Wardley by the way. I work for this company DXC Technology, I research for them and do all sorts of different areas and one of the tools that I use in this is my research is mapping. Now mapping is something that I started many many years ago, long before I ever did anything like research back when I was running companies. So it was 16 years ago. So what I want to go through is a quick introduction into mapping, what is a map? because I know that some people are fairly new to this. I want to talk quickly about patterns, get into the subject for culture and then talk a little bit about purpose and then link it all back to what we're doing today. So quick interaction mapping started here. 

This is a online photo service company called Fotango a huge number of different lines of business, a very profitable revenue growing. It was really, really doing quite well, except for it had a problem and that problem was this person the CEO, the CEO was completely and utterly clueless, making it up as they went along and I know this because I was the CEO. I used to come up with these wonderful statements, things like our strategy is customer focus. We would lead an innovative effort in the market, through our use of agile techniques and open source there. I just pinched them from other companies and just changed a few words and that was it. I was just making it up and so I was a little bit concerned that people would eventually rumble, that I didn't know what I was doing.

So I used to read every book I could find on strategy and I was getting absolutely nowhere until I ended up in a bookshop in London and in this particular bookshop, the booksellers asked me, had I ever read Sun Tzu's the Art of War, to which the answer was no and so she persuaded me to buy two different versions, translations of the book. And I'm so grateful for that, because it was in the reading of the second translation that I noticed a pattern. So Sun Tsu talked about five factors that matter in competition. First have a purpose and moral imperative. Two understand your landscape, the environment you're competing in. Three, understand the climactic patterns, like the weather, how it's changing the landscape, then understand Doctrine, so principles of organization, and then you're into the Leadership and the gameplay and this overlap with the mad major, John Boyd, called the OODA loop. So you had the purpose you will gain. Then you'll observe the environment. That's what landscape and climactic patterns are about. Then you orientate yourself around this with Principles, Doctrine is just a collection of Principles, and then you decide where you're going to attack, and then you act and that's where gameplay comes into it and the more you do this, the better you get at this game. And at the heart of this are two, why's the why a purpose. I want to win this game or whatever it happens to be and the why of movement, why do I move this piece over that piece? I was quite excited by that and it all depends upon you actually understanding the environment understanding the landscape and that is what got me into the idea of maps. 

\So I started looking into military history and one of my favorite battles is this one, the battle of Thermopylae. So Themistocles is an ancient politician group general had a problem. Persians were invading, he decides to block off the straits of Artemisium, force the Persians along a coastal road into a narrow pass called Thermopylae where a small number troops could defend against a larger force. There were about 4000 Greeks, the Greeks were independent city states and among these 4000 Greeks for about 300 Spartans and you know, was against the 140 - 170,000 Persians and this, by the way is obviously where we get the story of the 300 came from, I guess the point about narrow paths, you can use a small number of troops to defend against a larger force as you, see it's history So it's quite fascinating by how we use maps through military history to understand about battles and obviously once you start to learn these sorts of use of maps, you see the impact, the climate weather has, you see the importance of principles and organizing troops and you know, you learn different forms of gameplay, flank and opponent, whatever it happens to be, what I was looking at my company and so I thought here we are with a map that I am I using to decide what we're going to do, communicate with others and I was using something called a SWOT diagram. So strengths, a well trained Spartan army, a high level of motivation not to become a Persian slave. And I decided to create the SWAT of this battle weaknesses. The Ephors might stop the Spartans turning up. A truckload of Persians are turning up opportunities, get rid of the Persians, get rid of the Spartans. We're Athenian. We hate the Spartans threats - the Persians get rid of us and the Oracle says of a really dodgy film might be produced in a few thousand years. So I simply put these next to each other and so what would you use to communicate and determine strategy and battle position movement described by a map or some sort of framework like a SWOT and it was obvious to me that you would use a map and position movement, but what I was doing was I was using SWOT. I was using SWOTS. I was using stories. I was using various forms of business models and what I wasn't using was a map, so that really struck me and so I went round to the organization, told everybody, give me whatever maps you had. We had lots of maps in there, we had things like mind maps and we have business process maps and we had systems maps and I took one of the systems maps and this is one for the online photo service and I took one component and I simply moved that and I asked how's the map changed? and the answer is it hasn't, that's a bit unusual because if I take a geographic map and I take something like a map of the world and I shift Australia and put it next to say England, it definitely has changed, so why hasn't it changed here? And the answer is it's not a map. It's a graph to explain the difference. The three images at the top are all identical as graphs, so you've got Nottingham, London, Dover, Nottingham, London, Dover. Nottingham, London, Dover, connected by two roads roughly, M1 and M2 I'm seeing and they are all identical graphs, the three images at the bottom are all completely different maps again Nottingham, London, Dover, the difference between a map and a graph is that in a map space has meaning. So in a graph, it's all about the nodes and the connections, in a map it's not just the nodes and connections it's where it is on the map. So I thought where does that space has meaning sort of come from and turns out that a map has three basic characteristics: one, the most simplest premisis you have an anchor like magnetic North you have the position of pieces relative to each other. So this is North, South, East or West of that and you have consistency of movement. So if I'm going north i'm going north, if I'm going south, so then I asked could we map business, can't see why not?

I didn't have a map of business, I just had graphs. So I thought how do we map business where do we start? I started with a cup of tea, and I thought I'd map a tea shop because I drink tea and I sort of understood tea shops. Okay. What's my anchor going to be? I decided to pick the business itself and the public, or there could be many different anchors I could choose.

I could choose government regulators. I could break down the public into different consumer groups, but I thought I'd start there. Okay. Now it's a tea shop so they all have a need, the business has a need to sell cups of tea. We hope the public has a need to drink cups of tea, but a cup of tea has needs. It needs tea, it needs a cup and needs hot water. It needs kettle, hot water needs, kettle cold water, a kettle needs power. So what I've actually got is a chain of needs. So I start at the very top, I've got my anchor in this case, public and business and now what I've got is a partial ordered list the chain of needs. So I've actually got anchor and position and the further you go down the chain, the less visible something becomes the more distant it is. So to a consumer, you're drinking your cup of tea. You don't really care too much about the power to use, to heat the kettle. I'm still missing something, movement and the problem with movement is that in geographical terms, movement is pretty easy, because what happens when we move from point A to point B, it's unlikely that point B itself would have moved because during our journey time, it's unlikely, the continents will have shifted for example. If our journey took a long time, like 200 million years, then going from point A to point B would be slightly different because the chances are that point B will would have moved because the plates are moving, unfortunately, business our plates, the economic system, are moving quite rapidly. So you can't simply go from A to B because the chances are B, well you know, will have moved. So you actually have to measure movement in terms of change itself, took me about six months, 9,223 publications or something along those lines. But I eventually developed a pattern for doing this, and this is called the evolution access. So what happens is when we look at our chain of components, they're all different forms of capital and capital turns out evolves through four common stages. You start with Genesis, then you get custom built examples and products and then commodity utility services. So now what we've got is a map. If I move any components on this, it changes the meaning of that map, great. So what. Well, one of the beauties about maps is that they're all imperfect representations of space. The perfect map of France would have to be one-to-one scale, which means it would be the size of France and therefore it would have to be France itself. And as a map, that's pretty useless. So all maps are in perfect representation of the space, but that's good because that allows us, or gives us permission to challenge

so we might look at a map and go, you're missing a component. I can see your assumptions, but you're missing staff and somebody might say oh staff, that's more commodity these days, robots. Okay. If you really feel that way somebody else might challenge what we're doing. Somebody might say, why are we custom building kettles? Why aren't we using standard kettles. Somebody might say, oh, it's brand exclusivity that gives us a unique feature. The point about this, it provides a common language. It doesn't matter whether you're from marketing or from finance or engineering or BizDev. We can all talk about the same environment using a map.

So I'll give an example of this very simple one insurance company. This is the process flow for this particular insurance company, how they used to get compute they were having a problem which was rapidly growing. They were getting more and more servers into their data centers, this is quite old, this example was creating a bottleneck and so they'd come up with this plan of buying robotics to get rid of the bottleneck and automate the whole process and they'd spent six months working on this. They had vendors in, or they'd done all their selection, built their business cases, et cetera, and so, compute order server server goods in, modify mount, rack, that's where the bottleneck was and they asked me, what did I think? and the problem is I can't go and ask them, why are you spending, you know, many millions of robots because they've spent six months working on this and they'd already created their own story, their own narrative. And the problem you find in business is that we often run things with stories and all stories are political as in, they have a story teller and we tell everybody to be a great leader you've gotta be a great storyteller. So when you go and challenge somebody's story, you're actually challenging them as a person as being a great leader. So I can't go in and then say why you were doing robotics, because I'm challenging them and they'll just get very defensive.

So I said, well, can we map it. There was lot of argument about this, more argument actually then there was time taken to map, cause it only took 10 to 15 minutes to map the environment. And so they came up with a map using each compute order server, server goods in Brack, Mount modify. Now I can challenge the map without challenging the person, so, I'm not saying their story is wrong. I'm just now questioning the map. So they went compute is a product. I might disagree. Order server, server goods in, they thought were more a commodity, they went rack in custom built. I thought, why have you got rack in custom built? When they said we had custom built racks.

So what are the modifications you're doing to service? The service we buy doesn't fit in our racks, so we have to take cases off drill new holes, add new plates in order to get them to fit our racks. And that's why you need robotics here and of course, in that room, somebody just immediately went, why aren't we using standard racks?

Now, this is the, probably one of, if not the most common problem I see in business, people optimizing process flow without thinking about evolutionary flow. So they optimize existing processes rather than thinking about how things are evolved. And it's not because people are daft or stupid it's because people can't see the environment,

Lots of examples of this, this is a good friend of mine, Liam Maxwell, we used to do a lot of stuff with the UK government. One particular project alone saved about just simply mapping it out, say to 425 million. The insurance company example was a few million and again, I have to emphasize it's not because people are daft, it's because they are trapped by context, trapped by stories and they just can't see their environment. One of my more modern up to date version, this is one of my favorite ones recently. There's been a map of the industry on my whiteboard for about three years. I used to use it to identify obstacles and plan investments create this hundred million dollar project mapping was instrumental in developing the narratives that persuaded all the parties to go come together and that is the map or the reason why I like this particular map, this project, if you haven't worked out aready is this one, it's the greenhouse gas monitoring. So up there in space, that was a consortium, different companies coming together to build this particular satellite system. So I love the fact that maps we used in doing this.

One of my other favorite examples of course, is HS2 High Speed Rail so James Finley, a good friend used to be the CIO for HS2 now does awesomely interesting work with the Royal Navy and the RNLI and others back in oh gosh, 2011, 2012 roughly, we needed to or he needed to build HS2 in a virtual world, and the reason for this very simply is it's cheaper to dig up a virtual world and we'd go, whoops, we got that wrong than it is to dig up English countryside and so they started off with a systems diagram. So this is a graph of the system, this is what they need to build and the question then came in, how do we build it? Where do we use and what techniques do we use off the shelf? Agile, Six Sigma. There's about 387 million possible permutations of that question with that particular graph and so normally in government, what we tended to do was just outsource the whole lot. And break it break it into sort of sensible sounding structures, things like. Well, that's engineering. So we'll put that in engineering. That sounds a bit like user experience. We'll put that in user experience, etc. and these projects tend to fail cost overuns, all that sort of stuff. So what James did was he quickly mapped it out, sent me the map. This is the map 2012 and asked me, how do you organize this? Now I'd been mapping by that point for a good six, seven years. And so I'd come across this problem several times a relatively easy, because as things evolve, their characteristics change.

So then the Genesis, it's all about a change and so what you want to use is methods which reduce the cost of change. So extreme programming. Very very good there and when it becomes more commodities. So industrialize you're about reducing deviation. So Six Sigma or outsourcing to a utility provider is good there in the middle, we're all about learning.

So using things like scrum, you know, MVP, all that stuff, we call lean where we're all about learning and reducing waste that works well there. So simply apply that pattern across your map suffered the left buildup. In-house off the shelf products on the right hand side, outsourced utility providers and so that's what they did back in 2012, the project ended up in front of the Public Accounts Committee being praised for being massively under budget and ahead of schedule, normally again, as we said, we would have just broken it into chunks and outsource them and invariably hit cost overruns because we've used the wrong method in the wrong place.

So one of the things I also like about maps is, and the way I tend to use them is what we call pre-mortem post-mortem. So pre-mortem challenge like the insurance company will sit there, will map it out and we say, what we'll we do this, then we'll create a map and then we'll go and do something and then we'll do post-mortem learning, using the same map and it's through that pattern, that I learned patterns. So there are three basic types of patterns with map. The first is climactic patterns, these are the, almost the rules of the game they are almost like the weather, so if I take any chain and use that location, best coding practice, runtime, all the way down to compute.

The first pattern you learn is everything evolves supply and demand competition it will evolve, then you learn and the past success builds inertia. So we've become very successful in the past and so for example, best architectural practice with building compute. We're really good at this as computers, are products that things like N+1 disaster recovery test building data centers.

So we've got huge resistance to it evolving into something like a utility or Cloud, because it evolves you get a change of practice and that's because you get a change of characteristics. So you get what's called co-evolution. So best architectural practice for computers as a product evolves to utility began a new emerging practice which eventually we call DevOps The efficiency enables innovation. So as things evolve, they enable us to build higher order systems, say get standard bricks. We can build more complex, complicated buildings and of course those higher order systems, create new sources of value. Those are just some very very basic patterns there's about 30 of them which you can use on a map to anticipate change and that sort of stuff is useful for things like M and A's, seeing where markets are going, gameplay, working out where to invest. So in Ubuntu , I used to run strategy for a company called Canonical, which provides on the core of Ubuntyu, we use the map to map out the space and how it was changing the industry.

This was about 2008, 2009 and use this to attack the map and the effect was this. We spent half a million it took us 18 months. We were 2, 3% of the operating system against red hat, Microsoft. We took 70% of all cloud because simply we can see the map, we can see it was all going to a cloud. This is 2008. We could see the emerging practice, we could see their new applications being built. We knew where to focus.

The next set of patterns are called ???? So these are universally useful patterns for organization it's about 40 of them and things like this. Focus on user needs, understand the details, understand the supply chain components involved, understand what is being considered. It's not good enough to know you've got a kettle, I mean, you've got to know what type of kettle for that custom built one, is it, or should kettles be more of a commodity. Then challenge assumptions. Why are we custom building kettles. If it's commodity there's about 40 of those and then we get into the leadership and there's about a hundred different forms of game play in there and there's a wonderful book called reaching cloud velocity. Jonathan Allen &amp; Thomas Blur from AWS second ever book you'll find about 17 pages of mapping in there, including some gameplay, there's a particular model called innovate leverage commoditise, which is within that book and then you can use that to tear up industry after industry, but I'm not going to go through gameplays cause there's 100 of those and so I just want to just tell you that there are different patterns you can take.

At this point people often say to me, oh, this is just too complicated, we just need the right culture. Okay. So there's a problem here if I look at map, this is a map of HS2 in terms of building it in a virtual world, what we've got is a principle, use appropriate method, so saying there's no such thing as one size fits all.

So you can't use agile everywhere. Six Sigma everywhere. You've got to use multiple methods, but there are also two beliefs on the right-hand side. You've got a belief in process over people on the left-hand side, you've got a belief in, people over process. Now those are opposite beliefs, but they can happily co-exist in the same system as long as we understand conflict.

Now of course. Once we start talking about values and beliefs least then we're into culture. Now one of my favorite anthropologists was Kroeber. Kroeber basically said that despite us, this was 50 years ago, it hasn't changed much, despite a century of efforts to define culture adequately, there is no agreement among anthropologists regarding its nature.

So anthropologists are the experts on culture, and they can't agree on what culture actually is and so I love it when business they tell me what it's all about culture, because you can just say, what do you mean by culture? And before you know it, you can get into all sorts of wonderful debates. And I think the problem was highlighted by another anthropologist, a favorite of mine, Margaret Mead, who pointed out that language is a discipline of cultural behavior.

So language is part of culture and because of that, that means you won't be able to describe culture in language and that's good or is incompleteness theorem so no model can be complete and true within itself. So this led me to ask the question. Could we map culture? If I look at a map, you've got Genesis custom product commodity at the bottom.

That's really just different stages of evolution. Stage 1, 2, 3, and 4 and those are just labels for activities, but we have other labels which we use, which have exactly the same characteristics for different forms of capital. So we have practice, data, knowledge, we just have different labels for each of those different stages.

So I can mix and match and get concept, emerging, converging, accepted. That's perfectly fine. So I can put those at the bottom concepts, emerging, converging accepted, and I could start to map something else. In this case, I started to map out ethical values within a Collective. So, Universal Basic Income was an emerging Value Paid Holiday, even converging on an agreement Unionization pretty much accepted. But then those ideas and those concepts didn't appear just on their own, they were based upon things and so, in this case, worker's rights and civil rights or what Martin Luther king called the twin pillars of democracy and of course those things didn't just appear and they were based on something else, workers rights came from the Knights of labor movement and so it's all connected back with abolution and of course, all of this stuff has the same climatic patterns it evolves. So what we can do is we can start mapping out our ethical values within a system, now if I just take the top of this and compress it down so this is what we call a pipeline.

So if I just get back what I've done is just taken the most visible values that we often see and just put it into a pipeline format. So we just say there's a thing called values and we got convergence agreement and what values are all of these components are evolving, okay. That's a starting point, well where do I go from here?

Well, to explore this, I got a bunch of people together who just couldn't agree on anything. I got a group of Brexiteers and a group of remainers and these people would just like would argue it was all story-based, et cetera. Nobody was going to see the other person's opinion. I got them to sit in a room, talk about this culture, is she using a map? And. By using the map, it was the same a bit like I'm not challenging your story, we're talking about the assumptions of the map saying this map is wrong. That's how we created this and this is basically a map, a very imperfect map of culture itself. So there's many different concepts in there, a sense of Belonging, Safety, Behavior, Values, Doctrine, Memory, you know, gameplay competition with others, but that's all part of it and of course when it comes to culture, so, we're not singing and we don't belong to one collectively, not belong to many and Family, nation state, maybe a football club or maybe a church or something or your company, you belong to many and you can't just copy that each, you can't just say, if we copy the values and beliefs of this company to this company will be identically the same and what you might be, because you've got all these other components involved which are all linked together. You can do things like you can adopt Values you can adopt say, or will you Doctrine for example, just be mindful of the landscape.

So you can take principles from one company and apply them to yours, it won't make your culture the same. Because there's all these other components, but you can adopt at least and there are feedback loops. So you know our collective depending on how successful we are at spreading Values that influence our behavior and our sense of safety and our sense of belonging to the collective, of course, these can be negative as well. So if you are not very successful when we start going back the other way and so on. Well, you can manipulate once you start mapping out spaces, a bit like gameplay, then you can start to manipulate these sorts of spaces and so one of the ones that interests me is we often talk about power with and so we often talk about power, social structures, and power with others.

I like power with, we as a collective want control over an environment and then, but there are different forms doing this Cooperatives, Communism, whatever it happens to be, with different levels of success in terms of spreading their Values. Now there's also power over and this is all about the individuality, so not power with others, there's power over others. So it's all about my agency. Of course, that requires a collective power over and of course there's different ways of doing this dictatorship or market system based upon exclusion, whatever it happens to be and they have different levels of success and spreading their values and of course, then there's Power To, which is why I have Power over and I give that power to somebody else the Power To and that's the act of sharing. So that depends upon the Values, again, within the system, I like this stuff because all of this stuff is connected in this case to Values and so if you alter Values, you can change the balance of different types of power.

At least that's the idea of what people are experimenting with and certainly have been experimenting with for a long long time, because you change the Values through things like art you know who in the past may be statues and the paintings and then it eventually became things like Hollywood and things like the Avengers movie.

That's probably the most valuable out there is out there these days though, that art is now in terms of video games, interactive, immersive experience where again, organizations, groups are trying to subtly alter people's values through the playing a video games. So this is a particular one from Hezbollah.

I like this, that Project Violacea trying to change our behaviors in a more positive light, so why does that matter? Well, it sort of matters because when we think about nation states are all in some sort of competition, I suppose, with each other and in a physical world, we think of it in terms of here we are as a nation, here's our border, sensitive subject with Brexit, obviously, but here's our collective, our behaviors, our values within this border and sometimes we have conflict with others. Hopefully we don't. There are many ways of changing the game. One is to change the values of the people within that Collective. We changed them all to be like, you.

How you and we do exactly the same, but not on physical spaces in economic and digital spaces. So, you know, we have, we should have the here's the economic system. This is our border, this is where our Collective, our Behaviors, our Values, except for we don't because we don't map it, so we don't have any maps, so we can't see where the borders are.

I mean we're terrible! I mean as we're discovering we barely understand our supply chains let alone map it, but if you do you start getting into mapping you start to realize that as a collective, and this has been going on, you can embed values through things like simulation models into AI systems.

So this is the whole Beijing vs China and by that use, it's just something as simple as the Trolley Problem. So that you pick any vehicle were to pick a self-driving car. A car comes along, you can kill five persons or five people or one who do you kill what depends very much on the values of your society.

So if you value individualism money and one person extremely wealthy, it's tough luck for the five people. If you value the collectivism or Confucian ideas, then it's tough luck for the one person, so our values will be embedded in the simulation models, which are embedded in the AI systems. And of course, we've got this, this game going on. I won't bore you with that, it just China won that, so even the Pentagon now pretty much agrees that and that the UK has just announced this national AI strategy. It says that it's a bit like Oracle turning up to the cloud seven years after the battle's already been fought. So I often get asked is mapping just about conflict, therefore, no, it's about competition and competition is about seeking something together so it's about seeking a resource, seeking a knowledge of something, and there are many different ways of doing that. One may be conflicts of fighting together, one may be cooperation working together, ones collaboration, laboring together, and these are all different plays in that space of competition and you know which one you use? A lot of the time depend upon what your purpose is, so to explain that, this is a quite old map. This is my map of mapping itself. So one of the first things I did with mapping was actually to map it and I use this map of mapping, have used it to sort of manage where I'm taking mapping itself.

Now we start off with a purpose. It's got scope, it's got various components like doctrine, climatic patterns, but there's a conflict. The conflict is here, my imperative is to rebel against consultants that enslave us. I've never been very happy with the big consultancy firms and the same for the last 15, 16 years.

I keep on reading the many times McKinsey has been embroiled in scandals, all these sorts of stories, I'm not a fan and so what I tried to do was what I was hoping to do with mapping was to give people the tools to actually understand their environment. It's what Kat called the Epistemic Justice League.

It was just like it's all about giving people really that freedom, freedom to understand the environment, learn patterns from each other and not have to rely on sort of some supervisory tower, some sort of magical arcade words, which is how I see most of the consultancy industry. So I decided to use collaboration, cooperation with others to tackle this conflict.

So this is why you think things like learn mapping the Doctrine, the Climactic patterns, it's basically me, you marshaling others who have the same problem, so to fight against, or to rebel against the large management consultancies, which tend to enslave our corporations and gosh, I started this journey 15 years ago and it's just been incredible.

We've got so many good things out there, tools, for example, I absolutely love online Wardley Maps, it's not the only tool. There's several others and people are starting to build repositories of maps and everything else. This stuff is fantastic. Books, I miss the AWS, but we've got flow architectures by James Urquhart. We've got building software platforms. That's coming at the moment. There are lots of books being produced now on mapping, which is great to see. I love the training Ben does, his Pragmatic Wardley Mapping, is not the only one, not the only person who does mapping courses, there are several others. 

But one of the things I particularly like about this is, I know you will uncover opportunities worth a hundred times the course of price. In fact I guarantee it or I'll give you your money back. I love this within the mapping community, come and do the training. If you don't make a hundred times the value of the cost of the course we would just give you your money back.

I can't imagine a big consultancy firm ever coming to me and saying we'll build that government project for 2 million and if you haven't made 200 million in government, we'll just give you 2 million back. It just wouldn't happen. I love this sort of attitude, the focus on value, the focus on user need.

We're also starting to get, you know, Practitioners Certification exams with the entire field is being pressured out more with groups like GCATI which is an education charity. I mean, this is really exciting stuff we had a lot of talk about recently about creating a mapping foundation. So, I mean, it spent some time there Steve Purkis that says Steve's Twitter handle ??????

Talk about what we needed to, to create a foundation, you know the values that we need to have, what the purpose would be supporting the community, what it would need to provide, what it actually would cost to do this properly. And so we went through this process and we haven't created it yet because there's sort of a realization is, well, does the community really want this?

Okay, well, that's put up the funds. What it will require and just ask people to contribute. So we reckon it will cost about a hundred thousand to get this off the ground. If people there is now a Gofundme page and if we get to the hundred thousand and Steve will book this thing, and if we don't, we won't, but what we'll do is next year, we'll ask the same question and so at some point in the future, there'll be enough companies, enough people with enough interest that will actually make it happen and lastly, there's things like MapCamp, these events, MapCamp isn't the only event. And I've a huge, thank you for Steven and Jane for putting this all on, but this is where we all sort of come together. So I'm giving you an introduction to sort of where mapping started and the idea from that, talked a bit about patterns, I've talked a bit about culture and then I've talked a little bit about my purpose, where I was taking mapping, what I wanted to do, but there's something else. We've got a climate catastrophe heading towards us and we're not going to mitigate the effects of this with a, I love Greta Thunberg's blah, blah, blah, with just stories. We're not going to mitigate the effects of, we just have poor communication and conflict. No we're not going to mitigate the effects unless we start getting a handle on the supply chain and we're not going to mitigate the effects unless we start really understanding the values we have in society and how we change those values.

So all of these components are hidden away in MapCamp. There's three windows. The first window is all about resilience. The second window is about that idea of sustainability and understanding components from the supply chain and the third window is all about society itself and understanding things like our values and those for me are three critical components. If we want to help mitigate some of what's heading towards us. So I've done enough blah, blah, blah, myself. I'm going to say have a wonderful day. There are some truly amazing speakers and really interesting talks during the day, I mean, it's really good stuff.

I'll be hanging around chat? So you're welcome to always come and talk to me and, um, all I will say is thank you. Enjoy yourself, have a lot of fun and hopefully I'll see you at the fireside chat at the very very end of the day. Thank you.

At this point I will close everything down, oh, do I close everything down? Vfairs are you still with me?

